scientists have found that people tend
to agree on what features make someone
appear likeable trustworthy or competent
I want to find out what people think of
me so I'm sending my picture to dr.
Chris Olaf Ola he's analyzed hundreds of
real online data stre actions to profile
pictures and has discovered what facial
attributes are most popular so at least
one of the websites I used is entirely
based on swiping on pictures of people
yeah so so in that case photos seem to
be totally essential yes so for women
searching for men they do care about
attractiveness physical attractiveness
but they also care about how fun
outgoing you are kind of how warm and
approachable you are so if your goal is
to try to get as you know many women
interested you as possible then looking
more fun and outgoing is going to boost
your chances of you know separately from
looking more physical attractive yeah
okay
to see if my face is generally perceived
as being fun and help going Chris has
mapped my photo onto a 3d model of a
generic head and there we go
it doesn't do her look at me there I
think I don't look competent I don't
think I look particularly trustworthy
and I certainly don't feel a little
likeable with no hair and the computers
identification mark stamped on my
forehead I think I look more like a cage
fighter than a potential lover but what
I think is irrelevant
the computer program engineered by
Chris's colleague Alex Todorov combines
the collective opinions of hundreds of
people comparing thousands of different
faces the model tells us your face looks
like a book okay you do also look
trustworthy right I'm in terms of
competence but you have a fairly
competent looking face Wow okay great
yes what about the other things then
fairly extroverted and quite dominant at
the same time so I I think you have a
face that's good for dating and job
introduced which is great I think most
people usually it's one or the other
it's very old seeing this because what
I'm forgetting is that these are not my
character traits that this is you're not
telling me about my personality you're
simply telling me what what a bunch of
people would say about my character
traits glimpsing my face yes our face is
a lie
and chris has a way of showing me how to
look more likeable and trustworthy again
this can changed my friends yes oh do it
okay
so which one you are first make me more
like if I wrap up your likability I get
thinner and you're smiling
so smiling is a simple and easy tip so
my eyebrows a little further apart yes
and I'm slightly more smiley yes
and what about trustworthiness if we
increase that dial it up see that would
be hard to do without plastic surgery
the BBC are refusing to pay for plastic
surgery so the only alternative is for
me to try and take a more fun outgoing
profile picture to boost my online
appeal I have to say I'm cringing right
now but if this is what it takes I guess
I'll give it a go someone once told me
you have to cough out a laugh so
you